

This a model from the article:  
**Dynamics of muscle glycogenolysis modeled with pH time course computation and pH-dependent reaction equilibria and enzyme kinetics.**   
Vinnakota K, Kemp ML, Kushmerick MJ. _Biophys J_ 2006 Aug 15;91(4):1264-87
[16617075](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16617075) ,  
**Abstract:**   
Cellular metabolites are moieties defined by their specific binding constants
to H+, Mg2+, and K+ or anions without ligands. As a consequence, every
biochemical reaction in the cytoplasm has an associated proton stoichiometry
that is generally noninteger- and pH-dependent. Therefore, with metabolic
flux, pH is altered in a medium with finite buffer capacity. Apparent
equilibrium constants and maximum enzyme velocities, which are functions of
pH, are also altered. We augmented an earlier mathematical model of skeletal
muscle glycogenolysis with pH-dependent enzyme kinetics and reaction
equilibria to compute the time course of pH changes. Analysis shows that
kinetics and final equilibrium states of the closed system are highly
constrained by the pH-dependent parameters. This kinetic model of
glycogenolysis, coupled to creatine kinase and adenylate kinase, simulated
published experiments made with a cell-free enzyme mixture to reconstitute the
network and to synthesize PCr and lactate in vitro. Using the enzyme kinetic
and thermodynamic data in the literature, the simulations required minimal
adjustments of parameters to describe the data. These results show that
incorporation of appropriate physical chemistry of the reactions with accurate
kinetic modeling gives a reasonable simulation of experimental data and is
necessary for a physically correct representation of the metabolic network.
The approach is general for modeling metabolic networks beyond the specific
pathway and conditions presented here.

This model was taken from the [CellML
repository](http://www.cellml.org/models) and automatically converted to SBML.  
The original model was: [ **Vinnakota K, Kemp ML, Kushmerick MJ. (2006) -
version=1.0**
](http://models.cellml.org/exposure/07cdb663179c77de23e425a56464a2aa)  
The original CellML model was created by:  
**Geoffrey Nunns**   
gnunns1@jhu.edu  
The University of Auckland  

This model originates from BioModels Database: A Database of Annotated
Published Models (http://www.ebi.ac.uk/biomodels/). It is copyright (c)
2005-2011 The BioModels.net Team.  
To the extent possible under law, all copyright and related or neighbouring
rights to this encoded model have been dedicated to the public domain
worldwide. Please refer to [CC0 Public Domain
Dedication](http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/) for more
information.

In summary, you are entitled to use this encoded model in absolutely any
manner you deem suitable, verbatim, or with modification, alone or embedded it
in a larger context, redistribute it, commercially or not, in a restricted way
or not..  
  
To cite BioModels Database, please use: [Li C, Donizelli M, Rodriguez N,
Dharuri H, Endler L, Chelliah V, Li L, He E, Henry A, Stefan MI, Snoep JL,
Hucka M, Le Nov√®re N, Laibe C (2010) BioModels Database: An enhanced, curated
and annotated resource for published quantitative kinetic models. BMC Syst
Biol., 4:92.](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20587024)

